c/README.md, before:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world


# Other readmes/markdown files herein:

_To see all `*.md` files herein, run: `ls -1 | grep -i '\.md'`._

1. [onlinegdb--empirically_determine_max_thread_stack_size.md](onlinegdb--empirically_determine_max_thread_stack_size.md)
1. [read_stdin_notes.md](read_stdin_notes.md)
1. [SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md](SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md) - Unix `socket` interface: sockets, Ethernet, TCP vs UDP packets, client/server examples, etc.
1. [realtime_scheduler_README.md](realtime_scheduler_README.md) - explain how to activate and use the Linux `SCHED_RR` soft-realtime round-robin scheduler, as well as how to set the process or thread priority.
1. [pthreads_README.md](pthreads_README.md) - has links to files which show how to use the POSIX threads `pthreads` library available on Linux.


# Folder description

1. `abandoned` = files I do _not_ plan to finish, but which I want to keep because I may reference them or their ideas again later. This includes failed ideas which I thought might work but did not, and they don't make good demos as-is. Again, I do _not_ plan to finish these.
1. `TODO` = files already in-work, but not yet functional, or ideas which I'd like to begin and work on. I plan to finish these.


# TODO

Do my ideas and things in the files in the `todo` directory.

Commit message:

Update readmes with trick to run a C program as a Bash executable
	modified:   README.md
	modified:   c/README.md

c/README.md, after:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world


# See also

1. [Running a C file as an executable Bash script](../README.md#running-a-c-file-as-an-executable-bash-script)


# Other readmes/markdown files herein:

_To see all `*.md` files herein, run: `ls -1 | grep -i '\.md'`._

1. [onlinegdb--empirically_determine_max_thread_stack_size.md](onlinegdb--empirically_determine_max_thread_stack_size.md)
1. [read_stdin_notes.md](read_stdin_notes.md)
1. [SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md](SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md) - Unix `socket` interface: sockets, Ethernet, TCP vs UDP packets, client/server examples, etc.
1. [realtime_scheduler_README.md](realtime_scheduler_README.md) - explain how to activate and use the Linux `SCHED_RR` soft-realtime round-robin scheduler, as well as how to set the process or thread priority.
1. [pthreads_README.md](pthreads_README.md) - has links to files which show how to use the POSIX threads `pthreads` library available on Linux.


# Folder description

1. `abandoned` = files I do _not_ plan to finish, but which I want to keep because I may reference them or their ideas again later. This includes failed ideas which I thought might work but did not, and they don't make good demos as-is. Again, I do _not_ plan to finish these.
1. `TODO` = files already in-work, but not yet functional, or ideas which I'd like to begin and work on. I plan to finish these.


# TODO

Do my ideas and things in the files in the `todo` directory.
