c/SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md, before:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world

Unix `socket` interface: sockets, Ethernet, TCP vs UDP packets, client/server examples, etc.

# Learning Resources and notes

I've done a _lot_ of Googling and looked at a lot of resources now, and none of it seems to be great material so far on the topic of learning sockets and Ethernet packets and seeing good UDP and TCP server/client C examples, except perhaps GeeksForGeeks. We shall see. Study these:

1. GeeksforGeeks
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/socket-programming-cc/
    1. \*\*\*\*\*[TCP Server-Client implementation in C](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-server-client-implementation-in-c/)
    1. \*\*\*\*\*[UDP Server-Client implementation in C](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/udp-server-client-implementation-c/)
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/differences-between-tcp-and-udp/?ref=lbp
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user-datagram-protocol-udp/
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/why-does-dns-use-udp-and-not-tcp/
1. Google search for ["c socket client server demo"](https://www.google.com/search?q=c+socket+client+server+demo&oq=c+socket+client+server+demo&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i64l3.6367j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)
1.  
1.
1.  

[TCP Server/Client flow:](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-server-client-implementation-in-c/)

[![](docs/Socket_server-1.png)](docs/Socket_server-1.png)


[UDP Server/Client flow:](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/udp-server-client-implementation-c/)

[![](docs/udpfuncdiag.png)](docs/udpfuncdiag.png)

Commit message:

wip: finish socket__geeksforgeeks_udp_server_GS_edit.c through `bind()`

c/SOCKET_ETHERNET_PACKETS.md, after:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world

Unix `socket` interface: sockets, Ethernet, TCP vs UDP packets, client/server examples, etc.

# Learning Resources and notes

I've done a _lot_ of Googling and looked at a lot of resources now, and none of it seems to be great material so far on the topic of learning sockets and Ethernet packets and seeing good UDP and TCP server/client C examples, except perhaps GeeksForGeeks. We shall see. Study these:

1. GeeksforGeeks
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/socket-programming-cc/
    1. \*\*\*\*\*[TCP Server-Client implementation in C](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-server-client-implementation-in-c/)
    1. \*\*\*\*\*[UDP Server-Client implementation in C](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/udp-server-client-implementation-c/)
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/differences-between-tcp-and-udp/?ref=lbp
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/user-datagram-protocol-udp/
    1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/why-does-dns-use-udp-and-not-tcp/
1. Google search for ["c socket client server demo"](https://www.google.com/search?q=c+socket+client+server+demo&oq=c+socket+client+server+demo&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i64l3.6367j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)
1. TCP **server** example: see the bottom of this man page here: https://linux.die.net/man/2/bind. They cover all of these steps:
    1. Create the socket, bind it, listen, accept an incoming connection.
1.
1.  

[TCP Server/Client flow:](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-server-client-implementation-in-c/)

[![](docs/Socket_server-1.png)](docs/Socket_server-1.png)


[UDP Server/Client flow:](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/udp-server-client-implementation-c/)

[![](docs/udpfuncdiag.png)](docs/udpfuncdiag.png)
