markdown/README.md, before:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world


# Table of Contents
<details>
<summary><b>(click to expand)</b></summary>
<!-- MarkdownTOC -->

1. [Markdown demo files:](#markdown-demo-files)
    1. [Regular images \(PNG, JPG, etc\) vs GIFs](#regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->
</details>


<a id="markdown-demo-files"></a>
# Markdown demo files:
1. **[github_readme_center_and_align_images.md](github_readme_center_and_align_images.md)** - shows how to center, align, resize, etc. images in markdown
1. **[gif_images.md](gif_images.md)** - same as above, except with only **.gif** images, as a test to see if they behave differently than regular images when used in markdown
    1. See [this comment under my Stack Overflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12090472/how-do-i-center-an-image-in-the-readme-md-file-on-github/62383408#comment127834553_62383408):
    > Aligning text with an image on it's right does not work for gifs. – [Omar Dulaimi](https://stackoverflow.com/users/7186666/omar-dulaimi) [May 24 at 10:23](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12090472/how-do-i-center-an-image-in-the-readme-md-file-on-github/62383408#comment127834553_62383408)
    1. _Result of my testing above:_ GIFs work just fine! See below: [Regular images \(PNG, JPG, etc\) vs GIFs](#regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs).


<a id="regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs"></a>
## Regular images (PNG, JPG, etc) vs GIFs

GIFs work fine too. I just created another, duplicate markdown file on GitHub with all gif images instead of png and jpg images, and it works fine--it is exactly identical. It is called [gif_images.md](gif_images.md) in the list just above. Open up [github_readme_center_and_align_images.md](github_readme_center_and_align_images.md) in one window, and [gif_images.md](gif_images.md) in another window, and compare them side-by-side. See my example screenshot below.

Example Screenshot of a side-by-side comparison:  
[![enter image description here][1]][1]



  [1]: https://i.stack.imgur.com/Faiwz.jpg

Commit message:

Add markdown/underline.md demo

markdown/README.md, after:

This file is part of eRCaGuy_hello_world: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world


# Table of Contents
<details>
<summary><b>(click to expand)</b></summary>
<!-- MarkdownTOC -->

1. [Markdown demo files:](#markdown-demo-files)
    1. [Regular images \(PNG, JPG, etc\) vs GIFs](#regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->
</details>


<a id="markdown-demo-files"></a>
# Markdown demo files:
1. **[github_readme_center_and_align_images.md](github_readme_center_and_align_images.md)** - shows how to center, align, resize, etc. images in markdown
1. **[gif_images.md](gif_images.md)** - same as above, except with only **.gif** images, as a test to see if they behave differently than regular images when used in markdown
    1. See [this comment under my Stack Overflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12090472/how-do-i-center-an-image-in-the-readme-md-file-on-github/62383408#comment127834553_62383408):
    > Aligning text with an image on it's right does not work for gifs. – [Omar Dulaimi](https://stackoverflow.com/users/7186666/omar-dulaimi) [May 24 at 10:23](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12090472/how-do-i-center-an-image-in-the-readme-md-file-on-github/62383408#comment127834553_62383408)
    1. _Result of my testing above:_ GIFs work just fine! See below: [Regular images \(PNG, JPG, etc\) vs GIFs](#regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs).
1. **[underline.md](underline.md)** - demonstrate underlined text, as I explain how to do in my answer here: [Get underlined text with Markdown](https://stackoverflow.com/a/66595330/4561887)


<a id="regular-images-png-jpg-etc-vs-gifs"></a>
## Regular images (PNG, JPG, etc) vs GIFs

GIFs work fine too. I just created another, duplicate markdown file on GitHub with all gif images instead of png and jpg images, and it works fine--it is exactly identical. It is called [gif_images.md](gif_images.md) in the list just above. Open up [github_readme_center_and_align_images.md](github_readme_center_and_align_images.md) in one window, and [gif_images.md](gif_images.md) in another window, and compare them side-by-side. See my example screenshot below.

Example Screenshot of a side-by-side comparison:  
[![enter image description here][1]][1]



  [1]: https://i.stack.imgur.com/Faiwz.jpg
